Hi and welcome back in this video we're looking at views of you is not something we've seen before.
So let me quickly explain what a view is a view is essentially the result of a query.
It's not quite that simple because you can do things with views that you cannot do just with a basic
result.
Think of a view as a camera or looking at a table and then you can interact with that camera.
You can interact with that view in any way that you could interact with a normal table.
I appreciate it a bit confusing.
So I think the best way to go about this is that I'll show you how to create a view of the different
ways that you can interact with it.
For example let's say we want to get the total revenue per customer.
Essentially how much they've spent in our business.
Let's let's do that with a normal query.
First we would do something like select Stolle from customers in a join and then we would join on purchases
on customers don't ID equal purchases dot customer ID and as you know this would give us the customer
and then the purchases that we've made with the duplicate.
So we have to Rolf's to Ralph Smiths there and all that good Janz and then we can do.
And in a joint story about this too that it's a bit more readable inner join items on purchases tot
item id equal items that IAB and I'm going to run this and as you know that gives me the customer the
purchase that they did.
And then what item and that it's linked to that purchase.
So now what I want to do is get the total that they've spent in their purchases and we've done this
before.
So what to do is group by customer.
So we only get one customer row and then output the some of the prices.
So I think you can do that.
We're going to group by customer.
And in the select.
We're not going to select store.
Instead we're going to select the customer first name last name and the some of the price.
My recommendation is to pause the video and give this a go.
OK.
Once that's done let's go over it.
It will be grouped by customers dot ID and then select it will run this.
Now it tells us that we can't because the purchasers call them it's not in the group by clause.
So we've essentially lost that granularity.
We no longer have access to purchases separately or items so we cannot select each of the purchase items
because we've lost the granularity when we buy customer ID.
So what we have to do is not select each row individually unless it is part of the customers table then
we can do that.
So customers not first name customers don't last name and the sum of item prices and we can do this
because sequel realizes that some is acting on each of the items linked in the stable.
But before it is being grouped.
So when we execute this we get the total amount they've spent in our business.
Now this may be quite a useful result for a business to know which customers are the top customers for
example to send them promotions and things like that.
So it is not great if you have to do this every time that you want to get out your top customers or
it every time you want to see how much each of your customers have spent.
So what we can do is we can see this resolved as a view.
So let's let's do that.
We're going to do create value and then we give the viewer a name and when to call it total revenue
per customer and then we type as and then whatever comes after the AS In our case all of this stuff
is saved as the query that this view represents.
So if we run that we just get query returns successfully.
And now we can say select start from total revenue per customer
which is exactly what you want notice that where we've lost the customer ID because we didn't save it
in the view.
But if we wanted we could drop the view drop view like so and then we can go back here and create the
view again.
But in this case customers don't ID there as well.
So that's how you drop a view on how you can recreate it.
And this once again works and we can select star from total revenue per customer.
And now that gives us the view as well.
The reason why I've included the idea here is so you can show you what happens when we add a new purchase
for one of these customers.
So what are going to do is select start from items and I'm going to find one of these items for example
item 6 item id 6 I'm going to add that as a purchase for one of my users.
So I'm going to add item 6 to user 5.
And remember we have to do that here in the purchasers table.
So I'm going to insert into purchases values the purchase ID which is going to be 11.
The item id which is going to be 6 and the customer which is going to be 5.
Run that and then select start from.
And just when looking at them we see that his money spend has increased.
So what this means is that the view is updatable.
And what I mean with that is whenever you select anything from the view what is happening in the background
is the quality that we saved is getting executed.
So this is not saving the result it is saving the query that we have doing.
And that's an important distinction because it means that base is constantly up to date with the rest
of our data and it's a lot simpler than executing the other query Lindsley that we want to get the top
most customers those customers that have spend over $150.
It's easy they will say you select start from total revenue per customer.
Where in the case this is called Some sum is greater than 150 and then we lose the customer that then
spend too much.
So this could be our awesome customers our top customers whatever you want to call it.
And once again we can create a view for this create few awesome customers as and then select staff from
that of a view where some is greater than 150.
So let's say that view that you can see that just works and then we can say select staff from some customers
and there you go.
We could also then order by some I'm descending.
And what this will do is will give us the top most customer first like so 365 comes first and then 1
9 6.
So as you can see a view behaves exactly like a table but the data that's coming into that view is a
result of another query.
So this lets us to the squeeze while still keeping the code and in the query is very readable.
So that's nice.
Okay.
Other things we can do is insert into A view and now that's a bit more complicated and because you cannot
insert into A view if the view has a group by clause for example as you remember our total revenue per
customer view is grouping by customer ID.
I'll just bring it up here as you can see our total revenue per customer view in-groups by customer
ID.
And because of this grouping we use granularity and we cannot insert data into this view.
That's just one of the limitations of views.
Let's create another view and then insert data into it.
I'm going to create a view called expensive items and it's going to be select start from items where
prices greater than 100.
So if I do this with it it's going to do is just return those items that are more expensive than $100
from going to create this view and didn't like that can you.
I don't know why that happens.
I keep saying this but it is a small bag select start from expensive items.
Give you those items that are above $100 as we would expect.
And now what we can do is insert into expensive items
and we are going to put in a name an ID and a price so we can do it in any order we want.
ID name price and the value that we're going to put in our pan the name can be for example.
I actually think it's 9:00 the next day the that's available.
Remember you can not worry about the idea if you use a sequence.
But we are not using a sequence in the items table.
In this case the name can be for example a DSL or camera camera and the price can be $400.
We can run this and
it has to be my bad single quotation marks and the quotation marks is used only for table and column
names.
So there you go.
That works and we've put in our items.
Once again we can select staff from expensive items.
And and that that appears there something we can do is insert into expensive items.
I'm just going to go back into here and we can insert into a pencil where the price is ten dollars.
And as if it expands $5 that also returns to those.
Do you think this is going to work even though we're inserting into expensive items which only catch
those items that are above $100.
What do you think is going to happen when we press play
in this case.
Well the truth is it just works.
And then if we go and select staff from items we get the pencil down there and that may not be what
you want maybe you want to limit what you can insert by making sure that you can only insert into expensive
items when an item is over the $100.
Well there is a way that we can do that.
So let's drop the view drop for you.
Expensive items and let's recreate.
Creative you expensive items as select start from items where price is greater than 100.
This is our view before and as we know this let us insert the pencil which was under $100.
What we can do instead is at the end add another bit of Pasqua sequel only code which is with local
check option.
And what this does is it makes sure that each of the parts of the WHERE clause each of the filters is
being checked for when we insert or update data using this view.
So if we create this and then we go back to insert the pencil remember to change the ID so we don't
get an error then we say we get here that the new row violates check option for you expensive items
filling row contains this $2.
It doesn't give you much information about the error itself but nevertheless it does not let you into
the the pencil in there which you would if it was a hundred and $1.
What happens if it is $100 does it.
Letters insert the data or not.
Well unfortunately no because the view says that we're getting the items greater than $100 and that's
you know hundred dollars is not greater than $100.
It is equal to $100.
So this doesn't work either.
So once again drop view expensive item
and then we can go back to create view.
And here we can put an equal sign there.
And this is just like Python code and most other programming languages we can select where price is
greater than or equal to 100 dollars there.
And then we can press play and then we can go back and insert our pencil with $100.
And that works now.
OK this is getting a bit long video but there is also another option that is important.
And the other option comes into play when you create a view of another view.
So as you know we've got our app our view here that doesn't let us enter data that is $2 under $100
because of that local check option that we've put in.
OK so now let's see I want to create a view for non luxury items.
Well I want to show you something specific which is why I'm going to first drop this expensive items
view and I'm going to recreate it without the local check option and create You expensive items.
And I think I've got it here.
So this is the same view as before but without the with local check option.
So now I could insert the pencil with $2 if I wanted.
So let's let's create that view and then going to create another view based on this one for non luxury
items.
I'm going to create value non luxury items which selects start from expensive items where the price
is less than 10000.
So they are.
So this is going to select items that are between 100 and 10000 items.
And in this view I'm going to put in with local check option.
So I'm going to create this view and then that's fine.
And now I am going to once again insert into non luxury items this pencil that we know failed to before
with that check option.
So what do you think is going to happen.
I'm inserting into non luxury items.
They spend a lot as two dollars.
The non luxury items view is checking whether the item is less than 10000.
And the expensive items view from which we get data is checking where the items are over 100.
Do you think this is going to be an arrow or do you think it is going to work.
Well the truth is it bugs out right now.
The truth is it works and it works because local check option is somewhat special local check option
as the name says Czech's only for local checks local to the view that we are using.
So this does not let us put in a pencil that is ten thousand dollars because it 10000 is not less than
10000.
So this fails but we can put in under $100 because we are not checking for that in the view.
So you can see this local check is only price less than 10000.
Okay so what I'm going to do is I'm going to drop this view dropped you know on luxury items and then
I'm going to recreate but instead of local check option I'm going to use cascaded check option and what
that does is it checks for the local checks and then it also checks cascading scathingly for any checks
.
I don't even know if that's a word for any checks that are in other views that we use in this view.
OK.
So let's create that and then go back and try to insert our pencil here at 8:30.
And now you can see that and this violates the check option for expensive items a view quite a lot to
take in.
In this video remember that views are just looking at the results of a query but we can also interact
with it if it matches some of the restrictions such as not having a good by not having a limit essentially
not having anything that decreases the granularity of the data.
And we've looked at how we can call views from other views and that works fine.
And we've also looked at making sure that inserting or updating data of the view can be validated.
Really that the word didn't come out can be validated by using local or Cascada check option.
So that's quite a long video apologies for that.
But I'll see you in the next one.
Well we're going to be looking at some functions that we can use.
And so you there